##  Cluster Membership

- Kafka uses Apache ZooKeeper to maintain the list of brokers that are currently mem‐ bers of a cluster. 
- Every broker has a unique identifier that is either set in the broker configuration file or automatically generated. E
- Every time a broker process starts, it registers itself with its ID in ZooKeeper by creating an [ephemeral node](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.8/zookeeperProgrammers.html#Ephemeral+Nodes). ephemaral (수명이 짧은, 단명하는)


When a broker loses connectivity to ZooKeeper (usually as a result of the broker stopping, but this can also happen as a result of network partition or a long garbage- collection pause), the ephemeral node that the broker created when starting will be automatically removed from ZooKeeper. 

Kafka components that are watching the list of brokers will be notified that the broker is gone.


<!-- 이 부분 이해 덜 되었음 -->
Even though the node representing the broker is gone when the broker is stopped, the broker ID still exists in other data structures. For example, the list of replicas of each topic  contains the broker IDs for the replica. This way, if you completely lose a broker and start a brand-new broker with the ID of the old one, it will immediately join the cluster in place of the missing broker with the same partitions and topics assigned to it.


<!-- 여기도 다시 볼 것 -->
## Controller

- The controller is one of the Kafka brokers that, in addition to the usual broker func‐ tionality, is responsible for electing partition leaders.

When the ephemeral node disappears, other brokers in the cluster will be notified through the ZooKeeper watch that the controller is gone and will attempt to create the controller node in ZooKeeper themselves. The first node to create the new controller in ZooKeeper becomes the next controller, while the other nodes will receive a “node already exists” exception and re-create the watch on the new controller node. Each time a controller is elected, it receives a new, higher controller epoch number through a ZooKeeper conditional increment opera‐ tion. The brokers know the current controller epoch, and if they receive a message from a controller with an older number, they know to ignore it. This is important because the controller broker can disconnect from ZooKeeper due to a long garbage collection pause—during this pause a new controller will be elected. When the previous leader resumes operations after the pause, it can continue sending messages to brokers without knowing that there is a new controller—in this case, the old controller is considered a zombie.

Each new leader knows that it needs to start serving producer and con‐ sumer requests from clients, while the followers know that they need to start replicat‐ ing messages from the new leader.

To summarize, Kafka uses ZooKeeper’s ephemeral node feature to elect a controller and to notify the controller when nodes join and leave the cluster. The controller is responsible for electing leaders among the partitions and replicas whenever it notices nodes join and leave the cluster. The controller uses the epoch number to prevent a “split brain” scenario where two nodes believe each is the current controller.


## KRaft: Kafka’s New Raft-Based Controller

Starting in 2019, the Apache Kafka community started on an ambitious project: moving away from the ZooKeeper-based controller to a Raft-based controller quorum.


- In the existing architecture, ZooKeeper has two important functions: it is used to elect a controller and to store the cluster metadata—registered brokers, configuration, topics, partitions, and replicas.
- The benefits of such representation are well understood in the community—multiple consumers can quickly catch up to the latest state by replaying events. 
- The log establishes a clear ordering between events and ensures that the consumers always move along a single timeline.
- Using the Raft algorithm, the controller nodes will elect a leader from among them‐ selves, without relying on any external system.

[Apache Kafka Made Simple: A First Glimpse of a Kafka Without ZooKeeper](https://www.confluent.io/blog/kafka-without-zookeeper-a-sneak-peek/)


## Replication

